an explanation of the differences between our two hand-held solutions: The key difference here is how they connect to and store their data. Our wireless (SFDC) product uses a connect-on-demand model, while our remote (GSM) product uses a burst-on-connection model.  

The wireless SFDC product assumes it will have the availability to connect-on-demand. With that connection in place, the SFDC transactions can query the database in real-time. However, any transaction that occurs where a connection cannot be assumed must use the (GSM) burst-on-connect model, where data snapshots are stored locally on the device. This is true regardless of whether the actual connection occurs when docking at a wired station or when a GSM signal becomes available. 

By way of an example, let us consider a Goods Receiving transaction. The first action is to select a Supplier from the suppliers table. If you do not have connectivity then this must be downloaded to the hand-held prior to the transaction. Next we must specify the warehouse/location that will receive the goods. Without connectivity this must be downloaded to the hand-held prior to the transaction. Next we specify the associated P.O. linked with the supplier already specified. Without connectivity this must be downloaded to the hand-held prior to the transaction. 

Without connect-on-demand all the details of the P.O. would need to be defined by, downloaded to and saved on the device in order to identify received items and their associated details.

When a transaction is saved by the operator in the on-demand scenario the availability of a connection means the transaction can be posted directly into the database. In the burst-on-connection scenario the contents of the transaction must be saved to an outbound messaging queue on the device and stored there until the “burst” – the point at which a connection becomes available for the transmission of pending messages.

As you can see, the difference between the two types of transaction (wireless SFDC and remote GSM) is that each GSM transaction that is developed has to include a large amount of loading data to the hand-held device to ensure all the required data and error checking is available when the transaction is done. 

